# Security and Preservation

Establishing a single archive folder for each project prevents data loss and ensures data integrity. The archive folder for a project, comprised of the recommended file structure \([Appendix B](../appendix-b-tree-structure-for-file-organization-of-the-archive-record.md)\) and described in [File Organization and Best Practices](../file-organization-and-best-practices/) section, will be placed on your program’s network drive. The [Data Custodian](establish-roles-and-responsibilities.md) will have write permissions to all folders in the archive folder. Project personnel will have write permissions to an “incoming” folder and read-only permissions to all other folders. All other personnel with access to the network drive will have read-only access to the entire folder. The incoming folder allows project personnel to contribute products and associated metadata records to the archive folder. The Data Steward is responsible for reviewing these files and the Data Custodian is responsible for moving them from the incoming folder to the appropriate folder in the archive folder.

Anyone with access to the program’s network drive can copy the archive folder to their local hard drive and maintain the files on their hard drive in whatever manner they choose, but may only move things into the archive folder via the incoming folder. 

Although the archive folder is on the network drive to allow broad access to a definitive version of the project and its data, IRTM does not currently manage the network drive as an archive. Each individual designated as a Data Trustee \(see [Establish Roles and Responsibilities](establish-roles-and-responsibilities.md)\) for at least one project will have an external hard drive at their workstation that is set up to perform daily backups of all projects that they administer. For example, the Branch Chief of a program will have an external hard drive at their workstation that backs up the archive folders of all projects in their program.  


