# Definition of Project and Product \(aka Data Resources\)

For the purposes of the interim plan, priority will be placed on projects and their derived products. Projects are discrete efforts on a particular topic with defined objectives or goals. In the interim, it is at the program’s discretion to determine which projects \(completed, ongoing, or proposed\) should undergo data management. Use in management decisions and partner needs may be two selection criteria managers could adopt. The Alaska Region has historical and ongoing projects that can and should undergo data management; however, it may be necessary to reconstruct data management activities for these projects. 

Products \(aka Data Resources\) are recorded information and can be generated by experiments, models, simulations, observations, analysis, and other activities that create or synthesize data resources. In a new project, anticipated products should be identified during the planning stage when the design of sampling and analysis take place in consultation with the program’s biometrician. Which products are documented is at the discretion of the principal investigator, their supervisor and any relevant program or branch policies but the decision should be guided by the principle of reuse. For example, a tabular dataset that is intended to be used again should undergo data management and documents, such as reports, presentations, and peer-reviewed papers, should be managed to be discoverable and associated with the datasets and code used to produce results. ****  


