# Background

The Alaska Region of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is committed to improving the management of its data resources. A comprehensive, long-term plan to develop and implement a **Regional Data Management System \(RDMS\)** will begin in the winter of 2019-2020, with the expectation that it will be fully operational and in use in 3-5 years. In the interim, there is a strong desire in the Region to begin managing existing and new data resources with systems and staff capacity available now. 

Data is appropriately managed when it is documented, secure, discoverable and accessible. Documentation \(i.e., metadata, or data about data\) provides sufficient and relevant information so that users can understand, interpret, and use all data and derived products without additional guidance. Security procedures prevent loss and ensure data integrity. Discoverable data is readily found \(e.g., using a data catalog\), whereas accessible data is readily obtained \(e.g., downloaded from a website\). Together, these qualities ensure that data resources can be effectively and efficiently used both within the Service and beyond.

This document describes the data management activities necessary to build an archive folder for a project. An archive folder represents the definitive version of a project’s output. Data resources within the archive folder are the subject of metadata records and these resources, supported by their metadata records, are the authoritative versions intended for long-term storage, all subsequent workflow, analysis, products, and sharing to outside partners.  

Although there are areas of overlap, this document does not specifically address best practices in managing data resources throughout the course of a project’s implementation \(i.e., project workflow\).  Project workflow should be structured to maximize data integrity from creation or collection to the final archive described in this document. Project workflow is outlined in a data management plan \(DMP\), covering issues like field note to digital conversion, version control, and reproducible analyses. A Regional DMP, which can be customized for specific Program and project needs, will be developed separately. 

The audience for this guide are data management early adopters, and their supervisors, in Fisheries and Ecological Services \(FES\), Migratory Bird Management \(MBM\), National Wildlife Refuge System \(NWRS\), and the Office of Subsistence Management \(OSM\). This guide is a living document \(working draft\) and will be revised to reflect the ongoing development of available systems and feedback obtained from users.  The procedures and processes outlined here, while following best practices, are limited by current available resources and organizational structures. It is anticipated that many activities necessary in the interim will be greatly streamlined in the final RDMS.

This document is organized into four sections. [The Big Picture: Integrating Data Management with Project Management](the-big-picture-integrating-data-management-with-project-management.md) put data management activities into the larger context of project management and provides guidance on determining which products should undergo data management. The second section describes the [Four Fundamental Activities of Data Management](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/): [Establish Roles and Responsibilities](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/establish-roles-and-responsibilities.md), [Quality Management](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/quality-management.md), [Security and Preservation](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/security-and-preservation.md), and [Documentation](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/documentation/). Each activity is described and implementation guidance is given. [File Organization and Best Practices](../file-organization-and-best-practices/) describes a recommended archive folder structure to use for every project and best practices in naming conventions to use in the file structure. Best practices for the Region’s most common types of data are given special consideration.The [Sharing](../four-fundamental-activities-of-data-management/documentation/sharing.md) section is under development, but will describe how metadata records and associated products can be shared outside of the Region’s network drives. Appendices include a data management quick guide \([Appendix A\)](../appendix-a-interim-data-management-quick-guide.md), a tree diagram of the archive folder structure \([Appendix B](../appendix-b-tree-structure-for-file-organization-of-the-archive-record.md)\), and examples of untidy and tidy data \([Appendix C](../appendix-c-example-of-untidy-vs.-tidy-tabular-data.md)\). A [glossary](../glossary.md) is provided to define data management-related terms used in this document.  
This guide is supplemented by the [Alaska Region Metadata Guide](https://ak-region-dst.gitbook.io/alaska-region-mdeditor-interim-user-guide/). mdEditor \([mdEditor.org](https://www.mdeditor.org/)\) is a web-based application that will be used to create archival-quality metadata for projects and products.

